1.1 Introduction
    Computer technology has increased exponentially
    
    1993 - $50 Million for a computer
    Today - $500 for a smartphone with the same computational power as the $50 million in 1993

    Improvment has come from the technology used to build computers and the computer's design 

    Today's tech improvments have been pretty much steady, today's progress is much less consistent.

    Late 1970s = rise of the microprocessor -> roughly 35% growth every year

    Growth rate + cost to mass-produce microprocessors lead to more computer businesses focusing on microprocessors

    Also two more significant changes that made it "easier than ever" to succeed as a computer business:
        1. Elimination of assembly language given the development of higher abstraction level languages
        2. Creation of a standardized, vendor-independent operating systems -> UNIX and its clone Linux, lowered the cost and risk of brining out a new computer arch

    These changes made it possible to develop a new set of arch with simpler instructions called RISC
        RISC -> Reduced Instrcution Set Computer 

    RISC -> Released in early 1980s

    RISC-based machines allowed engineers to focus on two critical performance techniques:
        1. Instruction-level Parallelism
            - Initally through pipelines and later through multiple instruction issue 
        2. Use of caches 

    RISC was a gamebreaker forcing older archs to either catch up or die out.

    Intel rose to the challenge and translated 80x86 instructions to RISC allowing it to adopt many of the innovations first pioneered in the RISC designs.

    As transistor count increased, the hardware overhead of translating the more complex x86 arch became negligible
    The cost in power and silicon area of the x86 translation overhead helped lead to a RISC arch, ARM, becoming dominant 

    Due to these advances, there were 17 years of improvements where every year there was a roughly 52% increase... compared to the 3.5% improvements now.

    This had a few effects:
        1. Allowing computers to be avaliable to mostly everyone
            - since the cost for computing was also being halved
        2. The improvement in cost to performance allowed for new classes of computers  
            - PCs
            - Cell phones
            - Tablet computers 
        3. Improvements made to semiconductor manufactoring, as perdicted by Moore's law, led to the dominance of microprocessors.
            - Mini comptuers, prior to, were made by logic gates
            - After which were replaced by servers created by microprocessors
    
    These hardware innovations led to a renaissance in computer design


