Computer and Network Security
    Why is it important?
        Our computers are quite vulnerable
            - Poor design or after the fact design
            - Lack of awareness and education 
            - Weak threat model and under-estimation of attacker capabilities 
            - Buggy software

Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Attacks
    - A threat to a system is any potential occurrence, malicious or otherwise, that can have an adverse effect on the assets and resources associated with the system.
    - A vulnerability of a system is some characteristic that makes it possible for a threat to occur 
    - An attack on a sstem is some action that involves exploitation of some vulnerability in order to cause an existing threat to occur 

Types of Threats 
    Can be classified into four broad categories 
        - Disclosure - unauthorized access to information 
        - Deception - acceptance of false data 
        - Disruption - interruption or prevention of correct operation 
        - Usurpation - unauthorized control of some part of a system 
    
    Examples:
        Snooping
        Sniffing
        Spoofing
        Delaying
        Denial of Service 
        Malware
        Theft of Computational Resources 

Primary Issues 
    Confidentiality
        - prevention of unauthorized disclosure of information
    
    Integrity
        - prevention of unauthorized modification of information

    Availablitity
        - Ability to withstand unauthorized withholding of information or resources 
    
Network Attacks 
    Passive Attacks
        
        1. Release of Message Contents
            Scenario:
                Bob sends Alice a message over a network, or internet
                Darth can read Bob's message to Alice

            Consequence:
                Essentially, it reveals what Bob is saying to Alice 

            Fun Note:
                An MIT Technology Report in 79' used "Alice" and "Bob." Thus, it became a tradition.
        
        2. Traffic Analysis 
            Scenario:
                Bob sens Alice a message over a network, or internet
                Darth can observe the pattern of messages from Bob to Alice

            Consequence:
                Essentially, it ONLY reveals the fact that Bob is talking to Alice 

        Final Notes on Passive Attacks
            - Passive attacks are VERY difficult to detect as there aren't any noticable consequences as it's passive in nature...
            - To avoid these, focus on prevention
    
    Active Attacks

        1. Masquerade
            Scenario:
                Bob and Alice have an on-going conversation 
                Darth sends Alice a message that appears to be from Bob 

            Consequence:
                Alice is decieved and they might release critical information to Darth thinking they're Bob
            
        2. Replay 
            Scenario:
                Bob sends Alice a message, however Darth intercepts 
                Darth captures the message going from Bob to Alice; later replay message to Alice 

            Consequence:
                They messages are delayed 

        3. Modification of Messages 
            Scenario:
                Bob sends Alice a message.
                Darth not only captures, but modifies the message 

            Consequence:
                Bob's message is altered and changed.
                Alice is thinking Bob is sending the message, however it's really Darth 

        4. Denial of Service 
            Scenario:
                The server that is required for Alice and Bob to communicate is being attack by bots.

                Darth is sending bots to overload the server Alice and Bob are using to communicate

            Consequence:
                Darth disrupts the service provided by the server. Thus Alice and Bob can not communicate.

        Final Notes on Active Attacks 
            - Active attacks are more powerful, yet are easier to spot than passive 

Network Security
    Basically, a class of security techniques that help address the different vulnerabilities of network communications 

    There are other issues that arise in the design of secure systems besides confidentiality, availablitity, and integrity
        - Accountablity
        - Reliability 
        - Access Control 
        - Authentication 
        - Non-repudiation 
        - Privacy and Anonymity 

    A security policy is a statement of what is, and is not, allowed 
        - Expressed mathematically 
        - List of allowed and disallowed actions 
    
    A security mechanism is a procedure, tool, or method of enforcing security policy 

    Security Policy 
        A security policy is a set of rules stating which actions are permitted and which are not
        Can be informatl or highly mathematical
        If we consider a computer system to be a finite state automaton with state transitions then 
            A security policy is a statement that partitions the states of a system into a set of authorized or secure states and a set of unauthorized or non-secure states 
            A secure system is a ssstem that starts in an authorized stae and cannot enter an unauthorized state 
            A breach of security occurs when a system enters an unauthorized state 

        We ecpect a trusted system to enforce the required security policies 

        Elements of a Security Policy
            - A security policy considers all relevant aspects of confidentiality, integrity, and availablitity
                
                Confidentiality policy:
                    Identifies information leakage and controls information flow 
                
                Integrity Policy:
                    Identifies authorized ways in which information may be altered. Enforces separation of duties 

                Availablitity Policy:
                    Describes what services must be provided
                        Example: A browser may download pages but no Java applets 

    Security Mechanism 
        A security mechanism is a procedure that enforces some part of a security policy 
        We will learn many netowrk security mechanisms

        Goals of Security Mechanism
            Given a policy that specifies what is "secure" and what is "non-secure" goal of security is to put in place mechanism that provide:
                
                Prevention 
                    Involves implementing mechanisms that users cannot override and are trusted to be implemented in correct and unalterable ways 
                
                Detection 
                    Goal is to determine that an atack is underway, or has occurred and report it 

                Recovery 
                    Resumign correct operation either after an attack or even while an attack is underway 

    Trust 
        Security policies and mechanisms are based on assumptions and one trusts that these assumptions hold. 

        Other real-world examples:
            Aspirin from drugstore is considered trustworth. 
                The basis of trust is:
                    - Testing and certification by FDA
                    - Manufacturing standard of company and regulatory mechanism that ensures it. 
                    - Safety seal on the bottle 

        Similarly, for a secury system to achieve trust, specific steps need to be taken and specific parties need to be trusted 


